Aim: Implement XR simple Intractable in Unity using XR Interaction Toolkit.

1: Go to unity hub->Click on the New Project -> Click on the 3D and give the projectname.

2: Go to the Edit Option click on the project setting

3: Go to last option XR Plugin Management and click on Install.

4: Click on the XR Plug-in Management and check the box Open XR.
This will take little time and once done

5: You will be shown a warning dialogue box this is to implement all the preferences to 
your project in effect by restarting Unity ->Here click on Yes and your Unity will restart.
(OpenXR check)

6: Once Unity restarts ⬇️ screen will be present, for the first issue click on finish.
7: While for the second one, Click on edit, and the below dialogue box will appear 

8: In above dialogue box screen click on the + sign to add Interaction Profiles.
Oculus Touch controlleer profile
vavle Index Controller Profile
HTC Vive Controller profile
Microsoft Motion Controller Profile

9: For Adding XR Interactable Toolkit
Go to Window ➡️Click on Package Manager ➡

10: In the ⬇️ screen click on Package: In project ➡️ select Unity Registry
11: Click on ➕ icon and click on Add package by name.
Type com.unity.xr.interaction.toolkit and hit enter (this way will help you install latest 
version of XR interaction Toolkit).

12: After installation is, done ⬇️ screen will appear click on Samples.

13: Click on Import for Starter Asset and XR Device Simulato

14: Right Click on the Hierarchy area and click on 3D Object ➡️ Click on Plane.

15: For adding color to the plane we are using Material for that to keep things simple 
and structured, we will create folder called Material in our asset
So to do that right click on Assets area ➡️ click on Create ➡️ Click on Folder ➡️ rename your 
New Folder to Material.

16: Click on Material Folder ➡️Inside Material folder ➡️ right click ➡️click on Create 
➡️Click on Material.

17: Rename the name of material with your desired name, On Inspector panel click on 
Albedo to change color to desired one

18: Once done click on to plane game object➡️on inspector panel click on 
material➡️click on dropdown and select material that you created.

19: Lets add our XR origin before adding more game object on scene Right click on 
Hierarchy panel➡️Click on XR➡️Click on XR Origin (VR)⬇

20: Delete Main Camera above Directional light➡️Right click on Main Camera➡️Click 
on Delete
(Since we already have Main camera in XR origin having both camera’s would clash and the
Simulation won’t provide proper result)

21: When you get inside XR Origin folder➡️Camera Offset➡️Left Controller the 
Inspector panel shows controller option however for left controller it should show XRI Left 
but here it doesn’t show the same thus for this lets make some settings so that Left and Right 
controllers have proper attribute values assigned to it.

 22: First delete XR Origin from Hierarchy panel➡️Go inside Samples folder➡️XR 
Interaction Toolkit➡️2.5.2➡️Starter Assets➡️Presents.

23: Click on⬇️marked presets➡️click on Add to ActionBasedController do same job for 
rest of the marked presets.

24: Once added for marked Presets Go to Edit➡️Project Settings➡️Click on Presets 
manager

25: As you can see fields are blank to the left of Preset XRI Default Right Controller 
and XRI Default Left Controller➡️In this field type manually right and left for the respective 
controller.⬇️and close this dialogue box

26: Now again add XR Origin (VR) as in the earlier step [Right click on Hierarchy 
panel → click on XR → XR Origin (VR)]
Now go to left controller and check if Inspector panel appears same as that of below screen⬇️.

27: Let us add our XR Device simulator as well For this go to Assets > Samples > XR 
Interaction Toolkit > 2.5.2 > XR Device Simulator > Click on XR Device Simulator > Drag 
and drop this prefab to Hierarchy Panel.

28: To check if the simulator is working click on Game➡️and hit play button
29: Let’s add 3 cube game object in our scene
cube1 -> Capsule  cube2 -> sphere  cube3 -> cylinder
And this is how entire scene will look like⬇️

30: Go to Capsule gameObject ➡️ Click on Add Component ➡️ Click on XR Simple 
Interactable
31: Then Click on Interactable events for adding color to cube once hovered by 
simulator.
32: Since we need on hover will go for Hover Entered event on the list ➡️ then click on 
➕ icon to add functionality.

33: Drag and drop your Capsule gameObject on None(Object) [Basically it is asking to 
add a gameObject on which this functionality should happen]

34: Click on No Function for adding Red material ➡️ click on Mesh Renderer ➡️ then 
click on Material Material and below dialog box will pop up ➡️here select your created 
material.

35: Let’s test this in game mode
36: We will go for Hover Exited event ➡️ click on ➕ icon ➡️ drag and drop buttoncube 
gameObject ➡️ select MeshRenderer from Functionality ➡️ click on Material material ➡️ then 
add material White.

37: Now once again check in game mode
38: Let us add one more interactability i.e. the sphere that you can see on the other Cube 
should not be visible and should be visible only when our VR rays hover on capsule.
Let us work on this
Go to Sphere gameObject ➡

39: Click on capsule➡️ go to Inspector Panel ➡️ On Hover Entered event we will add 
one more functionalit.

 40: On above screen we will add sphere gameObject ➡️ will set functionality to 
GameObject ➡️ SetActive (bool) ➡️ and then enable checkbox.
41: Let us test it in game mode.


