Aim: How to animate character in Unity, import your character and an add animator

1: Simply sign up on Mixamo
2: You can explore more animation characters
For our Practical we will go for 3 animations i.e. Idle animation, Walking Animation, and 
Running Animation.
Search Walking animation.
Click on the Download. And Select Format as FBX for Unity(.Fbx)
Select Frame per Second 60 Second.
Select Skin as with skin
Select KeyFrame Reduction as none.

3: Create your Unity 3D Project ➡️ Create 2 folders named Animation for storing 
Animation Controller and second folder Mixamo for storing the 3D characters we downloaded 
➡️ Now drag and drop your downloaded file from folder to Unity 
Do the same thing for other Animation Characters eg. idle & running animation

4: Add a Plane gameObject in Scene and add idle bot on Scene Hierarchy panel

5: Select the x-bot gameObject so that it’s highlighted in the inspector ➡️ Let’s navigate 
to Add Component and type ‘Animator’ and select it.


6: First property Controller property is used to assign an Animator Controller from our 
Assets
➡️ For Animator Controller ➡️ let’s create it by right-clicking inside our Animator folder of 
the Assets tab ➡️ Create ➡️ Click on Animator Controller.


7: Rename it with your desired name here we have given ‘x-bot controller’

8: Now drag this asset into the slot next to controller in the Animator component 
properties.

9: Now double click on “x-bot controller”, Unity will open window titled Animator 
which consists of two panes: the grid pane on the right and the layers and parameters on the 
left

10: Open up Mixamo folder in the assets ➡️ we will find our three models, let’s select 
one of the animations out of the expanded model.


11: Take a look at the Inspector and you’ll notice that all the options are grayed out, 
This is because the animation is child of the Unity parent model asset

12: By clicking on Edit this is how the window will appear.
13: Instead, we are going to separate the animation from the model. To do so we will 
duplicate the animation (This is done by selecting the animation and press command and Ctrl 
+ D on the keyboard).

14: Now when we select our duplicated asset, we can modify its properties in the inspector 
window, ➡️ Let’s duplicate all three, check the loop property from each animation and move 
them into animation folder
[Looping the animation will continuously repeat the animation if thats our character’s current 
animation state]


15: Lets get back to xbot controller ➡️ with our Idle animation selected, lets drag it into 
the grid layer and we’ll immediately see the Idle animation state created!


16: If we want to switch default states, we right-click on a different animation state and 
select “Set as layer default state” (this means that this animator controller will automatically 
use this animation when we enter play mode / game mode).


17: Now if we press play, we will see our character performing
