Step1: Open a new Unity 3D core project and a plane game object and also add a colorful 
material to the plane, like green

Step 2: Now create a folder named ‘Textures’ in the assets window and also download two 
characters of your choice in the assets window along with the animations like jump and kick 
from the Mixamo website

Step 3: When we import the characters, their textures are not visible to us. So click on the 
character in the inspector panel, go to the materials section and select/click on extract textures 
then a popup will appear to select a folder, then select the textures folder that we created at 
the start, named'Textures', and’ click on select folder. Once this is done, go to the textures 
folder. You will find that all the textures regarding the characters we have chosen are being 
extracted into this folder. Also, the same textures are visible to us in the scene window.


Aim: How Unity handles the configuration of avatars and working with Animation Retargeting.

1: Create a new folder name as Mixamo and inside that create 2 new folder named as 
Characters and Animations
2: Right click on Hierarchy → click on 3D object → click on plane
Now you will have a plane like this.

3: Go to mixamo website and download any 2 characters and 1 animation.

Make sure you use following setting to download characters
Now go to animations and download 1 animation for any 1 of character.
Make sure you use following setting to download animations

4: Once everything is downloaded open character folder which we have created and 
drag and drop the character files in it.
Once done go to animations folder and drag and drop the downloaded animation.
(Note: if textures are not visible on your character, then follow step 6 from practical 3).

5: Now Drag and Drop both of your character into scene and place them on plane

6: Now go to animations folder and right click → click on create → click on animation 
controller.

7: Now go to hierarchy and select any one character → go to inspector and add 
animator component → drag and drop the animation controller which we created into 
controller field.
8: Go to animator tab and right click → click on create state → click on empty.

9: Now select the state and go to inspector → drag and drop the animation into motion 
field.

10: Now run the project and you can see 1 character is moving.
11: Now go to Characters folder and select the 2nd character(which was not moving 
when we run the project) → go to inspector → click on rig → change animation type from 
Generic to humanoid → click on apply.

12: Now go to animations folders and select the animation → go to inspector → click 
on rig → change animation type from Generic to Humanoid 

13: Go to Hierarchy → select the 1st character → and add the avatar which was create 
during step 12.

14: Go to Hierarchy → select the 2
nd character → and add the avatar which was create 
during step 11 and also add the animation controller which was created during step 6.
